# XML-encoding-project-portfolio_Mvondo_Mvogo_Léticia
This project is set up as part of the Master 2 TNAH course "Modeling Humanities Data with TEI-XML : Scholarly Editing and Manuscript Cataloguing in the Digital Age" It's purpose is to familiarize us not only with the collaboration tool Github, but also with encoding techniques such as TEI, in order to create a schematization of historical documents as structured XML files linked and validated by a DTD. Based on the course and the TEI guidelines, we have produced the following work.

We have chosen as the document corpus three poems taken from "L'Oeuvre poétique de Victor Hugo: Edition Elzévirienne. Volume 3", available on the BnF catalog "GALLICA". The poems are written in French, English, and Latin. The project represents a logical structure of each poem, in the form of XML and DTD. Concretely, the choice of the author's poems comes from the fact that we studied it in the 5th grade of our years in high school. It is a bit of a reminder of our childhood applied to the continuation of our studies in Social Sciences.Using XML allows us to structure our poems into stanzas and verses.The structure is as follows: the element "myPoems" as the root with the sub-elements such as, the number, the title, the author (Victor Hugo), the epigraph, the stanzas and the verses. Each is made up of number called "n" in our structure. Knowing that the epigraph is in three distinct languages.. It includes a README.md file, a source file which contains the 3 poem images, an XML file, and a DTD file. From technical perspective, the DTD defines the allowed elements and attributes, ensuring the standardization of the XML file structure.

In XML structure, for example, we will use : <number>, <epigraph>, <lg> (for stanza) and <l> (for verse). All of this is validated by the DTD. Each <poem> element in yhe XML template corresponds to one of the source files mentioned above.

This organization of the project is allows for an analysis of historical documents with the rigor of encoding and familiarizes us with Github. It also aims to develop future skills, such as adding metadata and additional annotations. 

Sources : https://gallica.bnf.fr/ark:/12148/bpt6k5435112w/f80.item#
DTD (Document Type Description); XML (Extensible Markup Language).
